{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28700\viewh13880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ## Datasets associated with Feehan et. al. 2023 \'93The influence of variability in lift, drag, protrusion, friction angle, and particle and fluid density on incipient sediment motion\'94 \
\
File: Shields_compilation_field.csv  \
Description: incipient motion observations (n=80) from field studies across fluvial systems derived from the literature. \
Data: Shields stress, slope, median grain size (m), flow depth (m), density (kg/m3), observational method, indication if used in this study, and citation. \
\
File: Shields_compilation_flume.csv\
Description: incipient motion observations (n=511) from flume studies derived from the literature. \
Data: shields stress, slope, median grain size (m), flow depth (m), density (kg/m3), observational method, indication if used in this study, and citation. \
\
File: Helley_1969.csv\
Description: Field observations (n=36) from Helley (1969) of incipient boulder motion correlated to near bed velocity. \
Data: sample number, C axis (m), B axis (m), A axis (m), density (kg/m3), volume (m3), flow velocity (m/s)\
\
File: Wu_Shih_2012_Experiment_1.csv\
Description: Observations from single grain incipient motion repeat flume experiments (n=115) and associated near grain flow velocity from Wu and Shih (2012). Dataset 2 in their manuscript. Grain size mobilized is 0.008 m.  \
Data: time relative to incipient motion (s), flow velocity (m/s)\
\
File: Wu_Shih_2012_Experiment_1.csv\
Description: Observations from single grain incipient motion repeat flume experiments (n=210) and associated near grain flow velocity from Wu and Shih (2012). Dataset 3 in their manuscript. Grain size mobilized is 0.008 m.  \
Data: time relative to incipient motion (s), flow velocity (m/s)\
\
File: Schmeeckle_fig_10c\
Description: Drag coefficient and near grain flow velocity from flume experiments in Schmeeckle et. al. (2007). Used to constrain assumed drag coefficient in simulations in Feehan et. al. (2023). \
Data: flow velocity (m/s), drag coefficient (C_d)\
\
File: IncipientMotion_data_compilation.xlsx \
Description: All above data collated into one Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. Created using Microsoft Excel for Mac version 16.65. \
\
References: \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Helley, E. J. (1969).\'a0Field measurement of the initiation of large bed particle motion in Blue Creek near Klamath, California. US Government Printing Office.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Aguirre-Pe, J. (1975). Incipient erosion in high gradient open channel flow with artificial roughness elements.\'a0Proc. 16th Congr. Int. Assoc. Hydraul. Res. San Paulo Brazil,\'a02, 137-180.\cf2 \
\cf4 Andrews, E. D. (1994). Marginal bed load transport in a gravel bed stream, Sagehen Creek, California.\'a0Water Resources Research,\'a030(7), 2241-2250.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Buffington, J. M., & Montgomery, D. R. (1997). A systematic analysis of eight decades of incipient motion studies, with special reference to gravel\uc0\u8208 bedded rivers.\'a0Water resources research,\'a033(8), 1993-2029.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Andrews, E. D. (2000). Bed material transport in the Virgin River, Utah.\'a0Water Resources Research,\'a036(2), 585-596.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Shvidchenko, A. B., Pender, G., & Hoey, T. B. (2001). Critical shear stress for incipient motion of sand/gravel streambeds.\'a0Water Resources Research,\'a037(8), 2273-2283.\
Church, M., & Hassan, M. A. (2002). Sediment mobility in Harris Creek.\'a0Water Resources Research,\'a038, 1237.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mueller, E. R., Pitlick, J., & Nelson, J. M. (2005). Variation in the reference Shields stress for bed load transport in gravel\uc0\u8208 bed streams and rivers.\'a0Water Resources Research,\'a041(4).\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Schmeeckle, M. W., Nelson, J. M., & Shreve, R. L. (2007). Forces on stationary particles in near\uc0\u8208 bed turbulent flows.\'a0Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth Surface,\'a0112(F2).\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Whitaker, A. C., & Potts, D. F. (2007). Analysis of flow competence in an alluvial gravel bed stream, Dupuyer Creek, Montana. Water Resources Research, 43(7).\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 Gregoretti, C. (2008). Inception sediment transport relationships at high slopes.\'a0Journal of Hydraulic Engineering,\'a0134(11), 1620-1629.\
Mao, L., Uyttendaele, G. P., Iroum\'e9, A., & Lenzi, M. A. (2008). Field based analysis of sediment entrainment in two high gradient streams located in Alpine and Andine environments.\'a0Geomorphology,\'a093(3-4), 368-383.\
Wu, F. C., & Shih, W. R. (2012). Entrainment of sediment particles by retrograde vortices: Test of hypothesis using near\uc0\u8208 particle observations.\'a0Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth Surface,\'a0117(F3).\
Scheingross, J. S., Winchell, E. W., Lamb, M. P., & Dietrich, W. E. (2013). Influence of bed patchiness, slope, grain hiding, and form drag on gravel mobilization in very steep streams.\'a0Journal of Geophysical Research: Earth Surface,\'a0118(2), 982-1001.\
Prancevic, J. P., Lamb, M. P., & Fuller, B. M. (2014). Incipient sediment motion across the river to debris-flow transition.\'a0Geology,\'a042(3), 191-194.}